SecurityGuard (#5256)
knative/docs: docs/serving/app-security/security-guard-quickstart.md

# Security-Guard Monitoring Quickstart

Before starting the tutorial, learn [about Security-Guard](./security-guard-about.md)

In this tutorial, deploy a Hello World service and protect it with Guard.

## Before you begin

Using Guard requires that your cluster will use an enhanced queue-proxy image.
In addition, Guard include automation for auto-learning a per service Guardian. Auto-learning requires you to deploy a guard-service on your kubernetes cluster.

To start this tutorial, after installing Knative Serving, run the following procedure to replace your queue-proxy image and deploy a guard-service in the current namespace.

=== "Install from source"

    1. Clone the security-guard repository using `git clone git@github.com:knative-sandbox/security-guard.git`

    1. Do `cd security-guard`

    1. Run `ko apply -Rf ./config`

=== "Install from released images"

    Use released images to update your system to enable Guard:

>     1. Replace the queue-sidecar-image with `ghcr.io/knative.dev/security-guard/guard-service`

Author: I am waiting for us to create a first release to understand where will the images be - this is the way I do it today on the IBM repository.

       for example if you are not using an operator, you may update config-deployment directly using 
        `kubectl edit ConfigMaps -n knative-serving config-deployment` to use the released
        queue-sidecar-image version that include Guard.

        ```
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: ConfigMap
        ...
        data:
            queue-sidecar-image: ghcr.io/knative.dev/security-guard/guard-service
        ```

        If you are not using an operator, you may use the following command to update teh config-deployment ConfigMap:
        ```

>         kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/main/deploy/queue-proxy.yaml`

Author: I agree. Also, we don't have now /deploy/queue-proxy.yaml. 
Notice that this is outside of /config since in /config we use ko and here we are using the images produced during the release.

        spec:
          template:
            metadata:
                annotations:
                  features.knative.dev/queueproxy-podinfo: enabled
                  qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate: enable
            spec:
              containers:
                - image: gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
                  env:
                    - name: TARGET
                      value: "Secured World"
        ```

    1. Apply the YAML file by running the command:

        ```bash
        kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
        ```
        Where `<filename>` is the name of the file you created in the previous step.

=== "kn CLI"

    ```
    kn service create helloworld-go \
        --image gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go \
        --env "TARGET=Secured World" \
        --annotation features.knative.dev/queueproxy-podinfo=enabled \
        --annotation qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate=enable
    ```

After the Service has been created, Guard starts monitoring the Service Pods and all Events sent to the Service.

## Managing the security of the service

Guard offers situational awareness by writing its alerts to the Service queue proxy log.

> Example output:

Reviewer: It'd be nice to include an example of how the user could generate an alert log themselves, so they could see it in action

Reviewer: I followed the instructions as written here, and when I curled the service the only log I see in QP is a "Starting queue-proxy" one

    ```text
    [...]
    {"level":"warn","message":"SECURITY ALERT! HttpRequest: Headers: KeyVal: Known Key X-B3-Traceid: Digits: Counter out of Range: 25"}
    [...]
    ```

> Security alerts appear in the guard log file and start with the string SECURITY ALERT!. The default setup of Guard is to allow any request or response and learn any new pattern after reporting it. When the Service is actively serving requests, it typically takes about 30 min for Guard to learn the patterns of the Service requests and responses and build corresponding micro-rules. After the initial learning period, Guard updates the micro-rules in the Service Guardian, following which, it sends alerts only when a change in behavior is detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security alerts appear in the guard log file and start with the string `SECURITY ALERT!`. The default setup of Guard is to allow any request or response and learn any new pattern after reporting it. When the Service is actively serving requests, it typically takes about 30 min for Guard to learn the patterns of the Service requests and responses and build corresponding micro-rules. After the initial learning period, Guard updates the micro-rules in the Service Guardian, following which, it sends alerts only when a change in behavior is detected.
```

Note that in the default setup, Guard continues to learn any new behavior and therefore avoids reporting alerts repeatedly when the new behavior reoccurs. Correct security procedures should include reviewing any new behavior detected by Guard.

Guard can also be configured to operate in other modes of operation, such as:

* Move from auto learning to manual micro-rules management after the initial learning period
* Block requests/responses when they do not conform to the micro-rules

> For more information or for troubleshooting help, see the #security channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information or for troubleshooting help, see the [#security](https://knative.slack.com/archives/CBYV1E0TG) channel in Knative Slack.
```

> # Security-Guard Monitoring Quickstart

Reviewer 2: same comment as above per naming, also all headings should be sentence case

> Before starting the tutorial, learn [about Security-Guard](./security-guard-about.md)

Reviewer 2: remove this line or make it a hard prerequisite

> In this tutorial, deploy a Hello World service and protect it with Guard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how you can use Guard to protect a deployed Knative Service.
```

again we use "Guard" here - please just use that throughout all the docs

        An easy way to do that is using:

        ```
        kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/releases/download/v0.1.0/queue-proxy.yaml
        ```

    1. Add the necessary Guard resources to your cluster using:

        ```
        kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/release-0.1/config/resources/gateAccount.yaml
        kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/release-0.1/config/resources/serviceAccount.yaml
        kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/release-0.1/config/resources/guardiansCrd.yaml
        ```

    1. Deploy `guard-service` on your system to enable automated learning of micro-rules. In the current version, it is recommended to deploy `guard-service` in any namespace where knative services are deployed.

        An easy way to do that is using:

        ```
        kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard/releases/download/v0.1.0/guard-service.yaml

>         ```

Reviewer 2: Installing etc here should be steps in the procedure, not part of a "before you begin". Please reformat this to make it part of one procedure, e.g.

1. Install X and Y
2. Set parameters
3. Create resources
4. Deploy stuff
5. Create a service

        apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
        kind: Service
        metadata:
          name: helloworld-go
          namespace: default
        spec:
          template:
            metadata:
                annotations:
                  features.knative.dev/queueproxy-podinfo: enabled
                  qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate: enable
            spec:
              containers:
                - image: gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
                  env:
                    - name: TARGET
                      value: "Secured World"
        ```

    1. Apply the YAML file by running the command:

        ```
        kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
        ```

        Where `<filename>` is the name of the file you created in the previous step.

=== "kn CLI"

    ```
    kn service create helloworld-go \
        --image gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go \
        --env "TARGET=Secured World" \
        --annotation features.knative.dev/queueproxy-podinfo=enabled \
        --annotation qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate=enable
    ```

After the Service has been created, Guard starts monitoring the Service Pods and all Events sent to the Service.

> ## Example alerts

Reviewer 2: I would make this its own reference page in the docs in the left nav, it doesn't seem like it's really part of the quickstart because it's not clear what a user is achieving with each step. This should be clarified or this section should be moved to a reference doc page.

Guard offers situational awareness by writing its alerts to the Service queue proxy log. You may observe the queue-proxy to see alerts.

Security alerts appear in the guard log file and start with the string `SECURITY ALERT!`. The default setup of Guard is to allow any request or response and learn any new pattern after reporting it. When the Service is actively serving requests, it typically takes about 30 min for Guard to learn the patterns of the Service requests and responses and build corresponding micro-rules. After the initial learning period, Guard updates the micro-rules in the Service Guardian, following which, it sends alerts only when a change in behavior is detected.

Note that in the default setup, Guard continues to learn any new behavior and therefore avoids reporting alerts repeatedly when the new behavior reoccurs. Correct security procedures should include reviewing any new behavior detected by Guard.

Guard can also be configured to operate in other modes of operation, such as:

* Move from auto learning to manual micro-rules management after the initial learning period
* Block requests/responses when they do not conform to the micro-rules

> For more information or for troubleshooting help, see the [#security](https://knative.slack.com/archives/CBYV1E0TG) channel in Knative Slack.

Reviewer 2: I'd also make this its own page in the left nav - it's not clear how this should be part of the quickstart when it seems to reference more advanced configurations that can be done by users

                  qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate: enable
            spec:
              containers:
                - image: gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
                  env:
                    - name: TARGET
                      value: "Secured World"
        ```

    1. Apply the YAML file by running the command:

        ```
        kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
        ```

        Where `<filename>` is the name of the file you created in the previous step.

=== "kn CLI"

    ```
    kn service create helloworld-go \
        --image gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go \
        --env "TARGET=Secured World" \
        --annotation features.knative.dev/queueproxy-podinfo=enabled \
        --annotation qpoption.knative.dev/guard-activate=enable
    ```

After the Service has been created, Guard starts monitoring the Service Pods and all Events sent to the Service.

Continue to [Security-Guard alert example](./security-guard-example-alerts.md) to test your installation

Then continue to [Using Security-Guard](./security-guard-using.md) to learn about managing the security of the service

## Cleanup

To remove the deployed service use:

=== "Apply YAML"

>     Delete using the YAML file used to create the service by running the command:
> 
>     ```
>     kubectl delete -f <filename>.yaml
>     ```
> 
>     Where `<filename>` is the name of the file you created in the previous step.
> 
> === "kn CLI"
> 
>     ```
>     kn service delete helloworld-go
>     ```
> 
> To remove the Guardian of the deployed service use:
> 
>     ```sh
>     kubectl delete guardians.guard.security.knative.dev helloworld-go
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Delete using the YAML file used to create the service by running the command:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete -f <filename>.yaml
    ```

    Where `<filename>` is the name of the file you created in the previous step.

=== "kn CLI"

    ```bash
    kn service delete helloworld-go
    ```

   To remove the Guardian of the deployed service use:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete guardians.guard.security.knative.dev helloworld-go
    ```
```

Think the formatting needs to be fixed here, it's showing up with ` ```sh ` in the preview: https://deploy-preview-5256--knative.netlify.app/docs/serving/app-security/security-guard-quickstart/#cleanup
